packages/modal/src/Modals.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from "@storybook/blocks";
import { SecondaryButton } from "@stenajs-webui/elements";
import { linkTo } from "@storybook/addon-links";

<Meta title="modal" />

# Modals

This package contains everything needed to add modals to your app.

It contains 4 categories:

- Declarative modals
- Dialog modals
- Building-blocks
- Ready-made modals

Let's go over them.

# Modals

## Declarative modals

Declarative modals are React components with `isOpen={true}` prop.

These components receive state and callbacks as props and are controlled.

If you can trigger the modal with a function (such as when user clicks a button, or a mutation onCompleted),
you should use dialog modals instead.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to declarative modals"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Declarative modals", "Docs")}
/>

## Dialog modals

Dialog modals use the `<dialog>` element and the dialog-API available in the browser.
It is imperative, which means that you show the modal by calling a function, not as a reaction by state change.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to dialog modals"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Dialog", "Docs")}
/>

## Minimal inherent visuals

Visually, declarative and dialog models are identical.

They provide:

- Dark overlay
- Shadow around the modal
- White background
- Round borders

Everything else has to be provided in `children`.
Either use one of the ready-made modals, or create a custom modal in your app.

# Help components

These are components that help you create the content of a modal, and make sure
that it looks consistent throughout your and other apps.

## Building blocks

These are small UI components that help ensure that, for example, a heading
in modals look the same in all modals.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to building blocks"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Building blocks/Docs")}
/>

## Ready-made modals

If you have a common use-case, for example a "Session has expired" modal,
you can use these ready-made modal components.

They are complete and ready to use.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to ready-made modals"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Ready-made modals", "Docs")}
/>

# Custom modals

Your app can have modals with any kind of content, using any components.

It is encouraged to use the building blocks where appropriate, to ensure visual consistency.

```tsx
interface CustomModalProps {
  // If you are using declarative modal components, pass onRequestClose callback to close it.
  onRequestClose: () => void;
}

export const CustomModal: React.FC<CustomModalProps> = ({ onRequestClose }) => {
  const heading = useTranslation("Custom.PageHeader");
  const okButtonLabel = useTranslation("OkButton.Label");

  // If you are using dialog hooks, you should use useDialogPromise resolve/reject to close it.
  const { reject } = useDialogPromise();

  return (
    <ModalBody maxWidth={"680px"}>
      <Spacing />
      <Text>{text}</Text>
      <Spacing num={3} />
      <Row>
        <PrimaryButton
          size={"large"}
          label={okButtonLabel}
          onClick={() => reject()}
        />
      </Row>
    </ModalBody>
  );
};
```

You can then use it with declarative modals or dialog hooks.

```tsx
<Modal isOpen={open} onRequestClose={() => setOpen(false)}>
  <CustomModal onRequestClose={() => setOpen(false)}/>
</Modal>
```

```tsx
const [dialog, { show }] = useModalDialog(CustomModal);

return <PrimaryButton onClick={() => show()} />;
```

Commit message:

- Add more info on when to use which modal paradigm. - Add more info about Window and Drawer.

packages/modal/src/Modals.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from "@storybook/blocks";
import { SecondaryButton } from "@stenajs-webui/elements";
import { linkTo } from "@storybook/addon-links";

<Meta title="modal" />

# Modals

This package contains everything needed to add modals to your app.

It contains 4 categories:

- Declarative modals
- Dialog modals
- Building-blocks
- Ready-made modals

Let's go over them.

# Modals

## Declarative modals

Declarative modals are React components with `isOpen={true}` prop.

These components receive state and callbacks as props and are controlled.

These are appropriate to use when you have a state, `loading` flag for example.

If you can trigger the modal with a function (such as when user clicks a button, or a mutation onCompleted),
you should use dialog modals instead.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to declarative modals"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Declarative modals", "Docs")}
/>

## Dialog modals

Dialog modals use the `<dialog>` element and the dialog-API available in the browser.
It is imperative, which means that you show the modal by calling a function, not as a reaction by state change.

These are appropriate to use when you have callbacks, `onCompleted` for `useQuery` for example.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to dialog modals"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Dialog", "Docs")}
/>

## Minimal inherent visuals

Visually, declarative and dialog models are identical.

They provide:

- Dark overlay
- Shadow around the modal
- White background
- Round borders

Everything else has to be provided in `children`.
Either use one of the ready-made modals, or create a custom modal in your app.

# Help components

These are components that help you create the content of a modal, and make sure
that it looks consistent throughout your and other apps.

## Building blocks

These are small UI components that help ensure that, for example, a heading
in modals look the same in all modals.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to building blocks"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Building blocks/Docs")}
/>

## Ready-made modals

If you have a common use-case, for example a "Session has expired" modal,
you can use these ready-made modal components.

They are complete and ready to use.

<SecondaryButton
  label={"Go to ready-made modals"}
  onClick={linkTo("modal/Ready-made modals", "Docs")}
/>

# Custom modals

Your app can have modals with any kind of content, using any components.

It is encouraged to use the building blocks where appropriate, to ensure visual consistency.

```tsx
interface CustomModalProps {
  // If you are using declarative modal components, pass onRequestClose callback to close it.
  onRequestClose: () => void;
}

export const CustomModal: React.FC<CustomModalProps> = ({ onRequestClose }) => {
  const heading = useTranslation("Custom.PageHeader");
  const okButtonLabel = useTranslation("OkButton.Label");

  // If you are using dialog hooks, you should use useDialogPromise resolve/reject to close it.
  const { reject } = useDialogPromise();

  return (
    <ModalBody maxWidth={"680px"}>
      <Spacing />
      <Text>{text}</Text>
      <Spacing num={3} />
      <Row>
        <PrimaryButton
          size={"large"}
          label={okButtonLabel}
          onClick={() => reject()}
        />
      </Row>
    </ModalBody>
  );
};
```

You can then use it with declarative modals or dialog hooks.

```tsx
<Modal isOpen={open} onRequestClose={() => setOpen(false)}>
  <CustomModal onRequestClose={() => setOpen(false)}/>
</Modal>
```

```tsx
const [dialog, { show }] = useModalDialog(CustomModal);

return <PrimaryButton onClick={() => show()} />;
```
