packages/modal/src/dialog/Dialog.mdx, before:

import { Canvas, Meta } from "@storybook/blocks";
import * as ModalDialogStories from "./modal/ModalDialog.stories.tsx";

<Meta title="modal/Dialog" />

# Dialog

`useModalDialog` is a hook that provides modal functionality.

It uses the `<dialog>` element in the browser, with built-in modal API.

The only visuals that this includes is the overlay above the page,
a shadow and default white background.

The content of the modal is provided as a component, and it is the first argument of the hook.
If it suits you, you can use one of the pre-made modal panels (such as `InfoAlert`).

This dialog hook API is imperative, which means it is opened and closed by calling a function.
Instead of having a prop `isOpen={true}`, there is a call to `show()`.

This makes it unsuitable for modals that are visible or hidden depending on state, for example
showing when loading=true.

If you need state-driven visibility, declarative modals are a better fit.

## Promise-based API

The modal hooks use a promise based API.

A typical flow:

1. The user clicks
2. The modal opens with props as an argument.
3. The user makes changes and clicks "Save"
4. The promise is resolved with the changes from the user, typically a form model.
5. The parent component awaits the promise in its onClick-handler and then applies whatever changes it receives from the promise.

If the user clicks cancel, the promise is instead rejected with no result.

The modal closes when the promise is resolved or rejected.

See example below for how this logic might look in code.

## Variants

There are three variants of dialog.

### Window

`useModalDialog(..)`

A normal modal. It fits with content when on desktop. It is full screen on mobile.
The use-case is larger modal content, like forms, etc.

### Alert

`useAlertDialog(..)`

A smaller modal. It fits with content always.
The use-case is smaller modal, like alerts and notifications.

### Drawer

`useDrawerDialog(..)`

A drawer modal. It expands from the side, instead of being centered.
The use-case is filters, menus that are shown temporarily on the side.
If you need the drawer to stay open, you should use `Drawer` component instead.

## Usage

### show()

In your component that should show a modal

```tsx
const [element, { show, reject }] = useModalDialog(TheModalComponent, options);
```

`show` takes the props of `TheModalComponent` as argument.

```tsx
show({ userId: 123 });
```

If `TheModalComponent` has no props, `show` has no arguments.

```tsx
show();
```

### resolve() and reject()

In the modal panel, use `useDialogPromise` to access the promise methods.

```tsx
const { resolve, resolve } = useDialogPromise();
```

```tsx
<PrimaryButton label={"Cancel"} onClick={() => reject()} />
<PrimaryButton label={"Save"} onClick={() => resolve()} />
```

Please note that you should pass an anonymous function `() => ...` and not just `onClick={reject}`.

### Promise with return type

If the promise returns data, you should add a type for it.

```tsx
export interface SomeModalResult {
  someField: string;
}
```

```tsx
const [dialog, { show }] = useModalDialog<SomeModalProps, SomeModalResult>(
  SomeModal,
);
```

And within the modal panel:

```tsx
<PrimaryButton label={"Save"} onClick={() => resolve(formModel)} />
```

### Example with promise result

```ts
  const openModal = useCallback(async () => {
    setError(undefined);
    try {
      const result = await show({ initialFormModel: formModel });
      if (result) {
        setLoading(true);
        await sendUpdateToServer(result.updatedFormModel);
        setLoading(false);
      }
    } catch (e) {
      // Promise was rejected, the user clicked cancel or closed the modal.
    }
  }, [...]);
```

<Canvas of={ModalDialogStories.ResolveReject} />

# Examples

## Session expired alert

```tsx
import * as React from "react";
import {
  InfoAlert,
  useAlertDialog,
  useDialogPromise,
} from "@stenajs-webui/modal";
import { PrimaryButton } from "@stenajs-webui/elements";

const SessionExpiredAlert: React.FC = () => {
  const { resolve } = useDialogPromise();

  return (
    <InfoAlert
      maxWidth={"384px"}
      onRequestClose={resolve}
      heading={heading}
      text={text}
      icon={stenaBell}
      buttons={<PrimaryButton size={"larger"} label={"Restart"} />}
    />
  );
};

const Example: React.FC = () => {
  const [element, { show }] = useAlertDialog(SessionExpiredAlert);

  return (
    <Row>
      <PrimaryButton label={"Open ModalDialog"} onClick={() => show()} />
      {element}
    </Row>
  );
};
```

## Edit user modal

```tsx
import { useDialogPromise, useModalDialog } from "@stenajs-webui/modal";
import React, { useCallback, useState } from "react";
import { PrimaryButton } from "@stenajs-webui/elements";

interface EditUserFormModel {
  firstName: string;
  lastName: string;
  email: string;
}

interface EditUserModalProps {
  initialFormModel: EditUserFormModel;
}

const EditUserModal: React.FC<EditUserModalProps> = ({ initialFormModel }) => {
  const [formModel, setFormModel] =
    useState<EditUserFormModel>(initialFormModel);
  const { resolve, reject } = useDialogPromise<EditUserFormModel>();

  return (
    <UserForm
      value={formModel}
      onValueChange={setFormModel}
      onSubmit={() => resolve(formModel)}
      onClickCancel={() => reject()}
    />
  );
};

interface UserExampleProps {
  user: User;
}

const UserExample: React.FC<UserExampleProps> = ({ user }) => {
  const [element, { show }] = useModalDialog<
    EditUserModalProps,
    EditUserFormModel
  >(EditUserModal);
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
  const [updateUser] = useUpdateUserMutation();

  const onClickEditUser = useCallback(async () => {
    try {
      const updatedFormModel = await show({
        formModel: createEditUserFormModel(user),
      });
      setLoading(true);
      await updateUser({
        variables: { input: createEditUserInput(updatedFormModel) },
      })
        .catch((e) => {
          // Mutation error
        })
        .finally(() => {
          setLoading(false);
        });
    } catch (e) {
      // User pressed cancel or closed the modal
    }
  }, [user, show, updateUser]);

  return (
    <Row>
      <PrimaryButton
        label={"Edit user"}
        onClick={onClickEditUser}
        loading={loading}
      />
      {element}
    </Row>
  );
};
```

## Demo

<Canvas of={ModalDialogStories.Overview} />

Commit message:

Add ability to use useDialog hook without dialog element (#899)

packages/modal/src/dialog/Dialog.mdx, after:

import { Canvas, Meta } from "@storybook/blocks";
import * as ModalDialogStories from "./modal/ModalDialog.stories.tsx";

<Meta title="modal/Dialog" />

# Dialog

`useModalDialog` is a hook that provides modal functionality.

The default behaviour is to use the `<dialog>` element in the browser, with built-in modal API.

The only visuals that this includes is the overlay above the page,
a shadow and default white background.

The content of the modal is provided as a component, and it is the first argument of the hook.
If it suits you, you can use one of the pre-made modal panels (such as `InfoAlert`).

This dialog hook API is imperative, which means it is opened and closed by calling a function.
Instead of having a prop `isOpen={true}`, there is a call to `show()`.

This makes it unsuitable for modals that are visible or hidden depending on state, for example
showing when loading=true.

If you need state-driven visibility, declarative modals are a better fit.

## Promise-based API

The modal hooks use a promise based API.

A typical flow:

1. The user clicks
2. The modal opens with props as an argument.
3. The user makes changes and clicks "Save"
4. The promise is resolved with the changes from the user, typically a form model.
5. The parent component awaits the promise in its onClick-handler and then applies whatever changes it receives from the promise.

If the user clicks cancel, the promise is instead rejected with no result.

The modal closes when the promise is resolved or rejected.

See example below for how this logic might look in code.

## Variants

There are three variants of dialog.

### Window

`useModalDialog(..)`

A normal modal. It fits with content when on desktop. It is full screen on mobile.
The use-case is larger modal content, like forms, etc.

### Alert

`useAlertDialog(..)`

A smaller modal. It fits with content always.
The use-case is smaller modal, like alerts and notifications.

### Drawer

`useDrawerDialog(..)`

A drawer modal. It expands from the side, instead of being centered.
The use-case is filters, menus that are shown temporarily on the side.
If you need the drawer to stay open, you should use `Drawer` component instead.

## dialog element compatibility

`<dialog>` is supported by all majors browsers, but there might be reasons not to use it.

The dialog element is placed in the top-layer in the DOM, which means that it overrides stacking contexts.
This means that you can't render anything in front of the dialog element.
It also means that some tracking libraries, like Mouseflow, cannot track user interactions.

If you want to use `useModalDialog`'s promise-based API, but not use the top-layer, you can
pass the `divInsteadOfDialog` option to `useModalDialog` (and the other dialog hooks) to turn off the dialog element.

Under the hood, this will use the ordinary `<Modal>` component, but wrapped with the same promise-based API as usual.

The only caveats are that you will lose the animations that are applied to the dialog elements,
and you might have to deal with stacking contexts (z-index) manually, depending on your application.

## Usage

### show()

In your component that should show a modal

```tsx
const [element, { show, reject }] = useModalDialog(TheModalComponent, options);
```

`show` takes the props of `TheModalComponent` as argument.

```tsx
show({ userId: 123 });
```

If `TheModalComponent` has no props, `show` has no arguments.

```tsx
show();
```

### resolve() and reject()

In the modal panel, use `useDialogPromise` to access the promise methods.

```tsx
const { resolve, resolve } = useDialogPromise();
```

```tsx
<PrimaryButton label={"Cancel"} onClick={() => reject()} />
<PrimaryButton label={"Save"} onClick={() => resolve()} />
```

Please note that you should pass an anonymous function `() => ...` and not just `onClick={reject}`.

### Promise with return type

If the promise returns data, you should add a type for it.

```tsx
export interface SomeModalResult {
  someField: string;
}
```

```tsx
const [dialog, { show }] = useModalDialog<SomeModalProps, SomeModalResult>(
  SomeModal,
);
```

And within the modal panel:

```tsx
<PrimaryButton label={"Save"} onClick={() => resolve(formModel)} />
```

### Example with promise result

```ts
  const openModal = useCallback(async () => {
    setError(undefined);
    try {
      const result = await show({ initialFormModel: formModel });
      if (result) {
        setLoading(true);
        await sendUpdateToServer(result.updatedFormModel);
        setLoading(false);
      }
    } catch (e) {
      // Promise was rejected, the user clicked cancel or closed the modal.
    }
  }, [...]);
```

<Canvas of={ModalDialogStories.ResolveReject} />

# Examples

## Session expired alert

```tsx
import * as React from "react";
import {
  InfoAlert,
  useAlertDialog,
  useDialogPromise,
} from "@stenajs-webui/modal";
import { PrimaryButton } from "@stenajs-webui/elements";

const SessionExpiredAlert: React.FC = () => {
  const { resolve } = useDialogPromise();

  return (
    <InfoAlert
      maxWidth={"384px"}
      onRequestClose={resolve}
      heading={heading}
      text={text}
      icon={stenaBell}
      buttons={<PrimaryButton size={"larger"} label={"Restart"} />}
    />
  );
};

const Example: React.FC = () => {
  const [element, { show }] = useAlertDialog(SessionExpiredAlert);

  return (
    <Row>
      <PrimaryButton label={"Open ModalDialog"} onClick={() => show()} />
      {element}
    </Row>
  );
};
```

## Edit user modal

```tsx
import { useDialogPromise, useModalDialog } from "@stenajs-webui/modal";
import React, { useCallback, useState } from "react";
import { PrimaryButton } from "@stenajs-webui/elements";

interface EditUserFormModel {
  firstName: string;
  lastName: string;
  email: string;
}

interface EditUserModalProps {
  initialFormModel: EditUserFormModel;
}

const EditUserModal: React.FC<EditUserModalProps> = ({ initialFormModel }) => {
  const [formModel, setFormModel] =
    useState<EditUserFormModel>(initialFormModel);
  const { resolve, reject } = useDialogPromise<EditUserFormModel>();

  return (
    <UserForm
      value={formModel}
      onValueChange={setFormModel}
      onSubmit={() => resolve(formModel)}
      onClickCancel={() => reject()}
    />
  );
};

interface UserExampleProps {
  user: User;
}

const UserExample: React.FC<UserExampleProps> = ({ user }) => {
  const [element, { show }] = useModalDialog<
    EditUserModalProps,
    EditUserFormModel
  >(EditUserModal);
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
  const [updateUser] = useUpdateUserMutation();

  const onClickEditUser = useCallback(async () => {
    try {
      const updatedFormModel = await show({
        formModel: createEditUserFormModel(user),
      });
      setLoading(true);
      await updateUser({
        variables: { input: createEditUserInput(updatedFormModel) },
      })
        .catch((e) => {
          // Mutation error
        })
        .finally(() => {
          setLoading(false);
        });
    } catch (e) {
      // User pressed cancel or closed the modal
    }
  }, [user, show, updateUser]);

  return (
    <Row>
      <PrimaryButton
        label={"Edit user"}
        onClick={onClickEditUser}
        loading={loading}
      />
      {element}
    </Row>
  );
};
```

## Demo

<Canvas of={ModalDialogStories.Overview} />
