packages/modal/src/declarative-modals/DeclarativeModals.mdx, before:

import { Canvas, Meta } from "@storybook/blocks";
import * as LoadingModalStories from "./loading-modal/LoadingModal.stories";
import * as ModalStories from "./modal/Modal.stories";
import * as DrawerStories from "./drawer/Drawer.stories";
import * as WindowStories from "./window/Window.stories";

<Meta title="modal/Declarative modals" />

# Declarative modals

Declarative modals are React components with `isOpen={true}` prop.
They are controlled by passing state and callbacks.

If you can trigger the modal with a function (such as when user clicks a button, or a mutation onCompleted),
you should use `useModalDialog` hooks instead.

These modals are based on the `react-modal` library.

# Minimal inherent visuals

Visually, these are identical to dialog hooks API.
They provide:

- Dark overlay
- Shadow around the modal
- White background
- Round borders

Everything else has to be provided in `children`.
Either use one of the ready-made modals, or create a custom modal in your app.

## Variants

There is a collection of modal variants.

### Modal

This is the normal modal.
It sizes itself as per content, unless on mobile. On mobile it is fullscreen.

<Canvas of={ModalStories.Standard} />

### LoadingModal

This is a small loading spinner modal.
This is usable when you want to prevent user input while some job is in progress.

This component does not use `isOpen` prop, if it is rendered in the DOM, it is visible.

Also `shouldCloseOnOverlayClick` and `shouldCloseOnEsc` are false by default.

### Example

```tsx
   return (
     <SomePanel>
        { loading && <LoadingModal /> }
        // ... Other content
     </SomePanel>
   );
```

<Canvas of={LoadingModalStories.Standard} />

### Drawer

<Canvas of={DrawerStories.Standard} />

## Window

<Canvas of={WindowStories.DraggableWindow} />

# Common props

These props are shared between all variants, and come from the `react-modal` library.

## `isOpen`

When true, modal is visible.

## `onRequestClose`

This function is called when user closes the modal by pressing Esc or clicking outside of modal.

## `shouldCloseOnEsc`

If true, modal will close when user presses Esc button.

`Default: true`

## `shouldCloseOnOverlayClick`

If true, modal will close when user clicks outside of modal.

`Default: true`

Commit message:

- Add more info on when to use which modal paradigm. - Add more info about Window and Drawer.

packages/modal/src/declarative-modals/DeclarativeModals.mdx, after:

import { Canvas, Meta } from "@storybook/blocks";
import * as LoadingModalStories from "./loading-modal/LoadingModal.stories";
import * as ModalStories from "./modal/Modal.stories";
import * as DrawerStories from "./drawer/Drawer.stories";
import * as WindowStories from "./window/Window.stories";

<Meta title="modal/Declarative modals" />

# Declarative modals

Declarative modals are React components with `isOpen={true}` prop.
They are controlled by passing state and callbacks.

If you can trigger the modal with a function (such as when user clicks a button, or a mutation onCompleted),
you should use `useModalDialog` hooks instead.

These modals are based on the `react-modal` library.

# Minimal inherent visuals

Visually, these are identical to dialog hooks API.
They provide:

- Dark overlay
- Shadow around the modal
- White background
- Round borders

Everything else has to be provided in `children`.
Either use one of the ready-made modals, or create a custom modal in your app.

## Variants

There is a collection of modal variants.

### Modal

This is the normal modal.
It sizes itself as per content, unless on mobile. On mobile it is fullscreen.

<Canvas of={ModalStories.Standard} />

### LoadingModal

This is a small loading spinner modal.
This is usable when you want to prevent user input while some job is in progress.

This component does not use `isOpen` prop, if it is rendered in the DOM, it is visible.

Also `shouldCloseOnOverlayClick` and `shouldCloseOnEsc` are false by default.

### Example

```tsx
   return (
     <SomePanel>
        { loading && <LoadingModal /> }
        // ... Other content
     </SomePanel>
   );
```

<Canvas of={LoadingModalStories.Standard} />

### Drawer

Drawer is a modal that slides in from one of the sides.

The typical use case is filters or menus that appear when the user wants to access it.

It does not have an overlay like the other modals, since the user might want to
keep it open while still accessing the main content of the page.

<Canvas of={DrawerStories.Standard} />

## Window

This is the only modal that has a visual design.
It does not share visual identity with the other modals, and looks more like a window.

It supports dragging, where the user can drag the modal to a different position on the screen.

<Canvas of={WindowStories.DraggableWindow} />

# Common props

These props are shared between all variants, and come from the `react-modal` library.

## `isOpen`

When true, modal is visible.

## `onRequestClose`

This function is called when user closes the modal by pressing Esc or clicking outside of modal.

## `shouldCloseOnEsc`

If true, modal will close when user presses Esc button.

`Default: true`

## `shouldCloseOnOverlayClick`

If true, modal will close when user clicks outside of modal.

`Default: true`
